Enable External and Hole Boundaries Assignment in XYZDelaunay (#30155)
idaholab/moose: framework/doc/content/source/meshgenerators/XYZDelaunayGenerator.md

Each input mesh, as specified in the
[!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/boundary) parameter and optionally
in the [!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/holes) parameter,
can define a closed manifold of boundary triangles.

The [!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/boundary) input mesh can either
include 2D surface elements or 3D volume elements whose external faces
comprise the boundary manifold. If the [!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/boundary)
input mesh contains volume elements with non-Tri3 surface sides or
non-Tri3 surface elements, they can be converted automatically by this
mesh generator.

The [!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/holes) input mesh can only contain
3D volume elements. The 2D surface elements option is currently not supported

> for [!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/holes). If one of the [!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/holes)

Reviewer: Why aren't 2D surface elements supported for holes?  I see I was too lazy to add a test at the MOOSE level, but there is a unit test for it in libMesh.

Author: It triggers some assert in debug mode when doing volume to surface conversion for 2D holes. I have some speculations but no conclusion yet.

Author: ```
  for (std::unique_ptr<MeshBase> * hole_ptr : _hole_ptrs)
  {
    // How did we never add a ReplicatedMesh(MeshBase&) constructor in
    // libMesh?
    const UnstructuredMesh & hole = dynamic_cast<UnstructuredMesh &>(**hole_ptr);
    ngholes->push_back(std::make_unique<ReplicatedMesh>(hole));
  }
```
I doubt this causes the issue. The same 2D mesh can be used as boundary without any issue but triggers the assert when used as a hole.

Reviewer: I don't see an assertion in that code snippet.

Could you point me to an input file that causes the issue; let me see if I can replicate it?

Author: ```
[Mesh]
  [gmg]
    type = GeneratedMeshGenerator
    nx = 2
    ny = 2
    nz = 2
    xmin = -1.0
    xmax = 1.0
    ymin = -1.0
    ymax = 1.0
    zmin = -1.0
    zmax = 1.0
    dim = 3
    elem_type = TET4
  []
  [surf]
    type = LowerDBlockFromSidesetGenerator
    input = gmg
    sidesets = 'left right front back bottom top'
    new_block_id = 12
  []
  [surf_mesh]
    type = BlockToMeshConverterGenerator
    input = surf
    target_blocks = '12'
  []
  [small_sphere]
    type = TransformGenerator
    input = surf_mesh
    transform = SCALE
    vector_value = '0.2 0.2 0.2'
  []
  [t1]
    type = TransformGenerator
    input = small_sphere
    transform = TRANSLATE
    vector_value = '0.3 0.3 0.3'
  []
  [t2]
    type = TransformGenerator
    input = small_sphere
    transform = TRANSLATE
    vector_value = '-0.3 -0.3 -0.3'
  []
  [triang]
    type = XYZDelaunayGenerator
    boundary = 'surf_mesh'
    holes = 't1 t2'

    desired_volume = 1e-2

    output_subdomain_name = 'sphere'

    output_boundary = 'ext'
    hole_boundaries = 'h1 h2'
  []
[]
```
This input runs fine in opt mode, but triggers an assert about elem dimension in dbg mode.

Reviewer: If it "runs fine" that's because it's surviving the bug, not because there's not a bug.

`MeshTetInterface::volume_to_surface_mesh()` isn't working correctly on non-volume meshes.  I'll have a fix shortly.

Reviewer: I found a libMesh change that fixes the problem for your test case, and hopefully any other 2D boundary definition ... but it's not the *right* fix.  It's still just hiding the actual bug, because it's inherently a workaround for a broken input mesh - `mesh.is_prepared()` is true of the input boundary, but the `mesh` is full of neighboring triangles which have no neighbor pointers, clearly unprepared.  If I try to assert `MeshTools::valid_is_prepared(mesh)` there it fails.

But we're supposed to *already* be checking `valid_is_prepared()` in the MOOSE `MeshGenerator` system!  And our boundary mesh (which is what's throwing the error here; it's not just a hole thing) just goes straight from `getMesh("boundary")` to the `NetGenMeshInterface`, and if I check `valid_is_prepared(*mesh)` even before that happens I get a failure too.

But that shouldn't happen.  We check `valid_is_prepared()` after every generation, in `MeshGeneratorSystem`.  And if I get there in the debugger ... there the `surf_mesh` mesh is passing, because it's properly marked as not prepared.

I see it: We're losing that marking when we clone `surf_mesh` afterward, so we can give the original to `small_sphere` and give its clone to `triang`.  The cloning process is doing an incomplete preparation, enough to set `is_prepared()`, but not getting the neighbor pointers set.  That explains why, even though it's *not* a hole input that's failing, we're only able to reproduce it when there's holes in this input file - if we take out the holes, MOOSE doesn't need a clone to get the boundary, and then the boundary remains properly marked as unprepared and gets properly prepared when we use it.

I'll put up a separate PR with the clone() fixes; that'll take a bit longer.

Assertions failing are symptoms, not problems.  Getting an assertion to pass or avoiding an assertion failure without figuring out the underlying cause isn't fixing a bug, it's protecting one.  Please, don't do that.  I obviously do not write good enough code for us to be able to trust it without extensive testing, and for that to work we really need to investigate every failing test, not cover any up.  The underlying bug here is broad enough that it could end up biting a hundred different mesh generators in MOOSE and subtle enough that it could have similar "now you see it, now you don't" behavior in any of them.

Reviewer: https://github.com/libMesh/libmesh/pull/4151 is my workaround; https://github.com/libMesh/libmesh/pull/4152 the proper fix.

Author: revised as 2D holes are supported after the libmesh fixes.

Each input mesh, as specified in the
[!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/boundary) parameter and optionally
in the [!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/holes) parameter,
can define a closed manifold of boundary triangles.

The [!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/boundary) input mesh can either
include 2D surface elements or 3D volume elements whose external faces
comprise the boundary manifold. If the [!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/boundary)
input mesh contains volume elements with non-Tri3 surface sides or

> non-Tri3 surface elements, they can be converted automatically by this
> mesh generator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
non-Tri3 surface elements, the elements (from the entire boundary input mesh) can be converted automatically by this
mesh generator to ensure Tri-3 surface elements.
```

The [!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/holes) input mesh can contain
either all 3D volume elements, or all 2D surface elements.
If one of the [!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/holes)
meshes contains non-Tri3 surface elements, or volume elements with non-Tri3

> side elements on its external surface, the non-Tri3 elements are converted
> automatically to facilitate mesh generation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
side elements on its external surface, the elements (from the entire holes) can be converted automatically by this
mesh generator to ensure Tri-3 surface elements.
```
